Research.md, before:

# Research

This project uses the following research article as a reference :
López-García, Martín  and Kypraios,Theodore 2018, 'A unified stochastic modelling framework for the spread of nosocomial infections', *Journal of the Royal Society Interface*, vol. 15, no. 143.
We have summarised the paper's findings in our own words. 

## Abstract - Can
**This paper illustrates:**
- a highly versatile stochastic modelling framework that can account for [these factors](#factors).
- allows one to exactly analyse the reproduction number of eachagent at the hospital ward during a nosocomial outbreak.
- having case studies to show this unified modelling framework.
- the results show [these points](#show).
## Section 1 - Can
**Introduction:**
- worldwide **problem**:
    1. getting infections at the hospital.
    2. pathogens --> antibiotic resistance appearing and spreading.
- Easy to spread multidrug-resistant bacteria (MDRB) in **healthcare environments**.
- **Mode** of transmission (uncertain but usually):
    1. exogenous
    2. endogenous
- **Transmission** occur:
    1. HCW–patient
    2. environmental contamination
    3. airborne spread
- Infection **control strategies** in hospital:
    1. hand disinfection procedures
    2. environmental  cleaning
    3. active  screening  for colonization among patients
    4. isolation of colonized individuals
    5. managing staffing levels
    6. antibiotic prescription 
    7. decolonization procedures
    8. patient cohorting
- Using **agent-based models** in this paper:  
  agent-based models -- where one keeps track of the state ofeach individual within the population throughout time, allowing one to model heterogeneities at the individual level.
- The **factors** <a name="factors"></a> have been considered in these stochastic models:  
    1. spontaneous colonization of patients
    2. patient-to-staff and staff-to-patient contamination/colonization
    3. environmental contamination
    4. patient cohorting
    5. room configuration of thehospital ward
    6. staff hand-washing compliance level
    7. the presence of different types of HCWs or specific staff–patient contact network structures
- This paper **results show**: <a name="show"></a>
    1. highlight the importance of maintaining high hand-hygiene compliance levelsby HCWs
    2. support control strategies including to improve environmental cleaning during nosocomial outbreaks
    3. show the potential of some healthcare workers to act as super-spreaders during these outbreaks
    
## Section 2 - Imalia
### Section 2.1 - Imalia
### Section 2.2 - Imalia
## Section 3 - Ben
### Section 3.1 - Ben
### Section 3.2 - Akinfolarin
### Section 3.3 - Akinfolarin
### Section 3.4 - Kian
### Section 3.5 - Kian
## Section 4 - Eoin
## Data accessibility and Authors' contributions - Eoin

Commit message:

Added Section 2 to research branch
Completed Sections 2, 2.1 and 2.2 as assigned.

Research.md, after:

# Research

This project uses the following research article as a reference :
López-García, Martín  and Kypraios,Theodore 2018, 'A unified stochastic modelling framework for the spread of nosocomial infections', *Journal of the Royal Society Interface*, vol. 15, no. 143.
We have summarised the paper's findings in our own words. 

## Abstract - Can
**This paper illustrates:**
- a highly versatile stochastic modelling framework that can account for [these factors](#factors).
- allows one to exactly analyse the reproduction number of eachagent at the hospital ward during a nosocomial outbreak.
- having case studies to show this unified modelling framework.
- the results show [these points](#show).
## Section 1 - Can
**Introduction:**
- worldwide **problem**:
    1. getting infections at the hospital.
    2. pathogens --> antibiotic resistance appearing and spreading.
- Easy to spread multidrug-resistant bacteria (MDRB) in **healthcare environments**.
- **Mode** of transmission (uncertain but usually):
    1. exogenous
    2. endogenous
- **Transmission** occur:
    1. HCW–patient
    2. environmental contamination
    3. airborne spread
- Infection **control strategies** in hospital:
    1. hand disinfection procedures
    2. environmental  cleaning
    3. active  screening  for colonization among patients
    4. isolation of colonized individuals
    5. managing staffing levels
    6. antibiotic prescription 
    7. decolonization procedures
    8. patient cohorting
- Using **agent-based models** in this paper:  
  agent-based models -- where one keeps track of the state ofeach individual within the population throughout time, allowing one to model heterogeneities at the individual level.
- The **factors** <a name="factors"></a> have been considered in these stochastic models:  
    1. spontaneous colonization of patients
    2. patient-to-staff and staff-to-patient contamination/colonization
    3. environmental contamination
    4. patient cohorting
    5. room configuration of thehospital ward
    6. staff hand-washing compliance level
    7. the presence of different types of HCWs or specific staff–patient contact network structures
- This paper **results show**: <a name="show"></a>
    1. highlight the importance of maintaining high hand-hygiene compliance levelsby HCWs
    2. support control strategies including to improve environmental cleaning during nosocomial outbreaks
    3. show the potential of some healthcare workers to act as super-spreaders during these outbreaks
    
## Section 2 - Imalia
The structure suggested by the author to build the agent-based model is directly outlined within this section.  The authors propose a model whereby the agents existing in the model can be classed under different types such as patients, healthcare workers (HCWs), surfaces and patients situated in alternative rooms. The basis of the proposed model is built on the concept of a continuous-time Markov chain. The reason for this selection is clarified by the authors who expand the logic behind their choice by stating that the Markov chain facilitates the necessary accuracy needed to calculate the reproduction number of the various agents. This leads to a method of measuring the number of infections that are introduced by the agent. The model also measures the degree of infectiousness of an individual agents when interacting with different individuals. 
### Section 2.1 - Imalia
The process of infection takes into account the equation: X = {X(t)  = (I<sub>1</sub>(t),I<sub>2</sub>(t), …, I<sub>k</sub>(t))} where t ≥ 0 and I<sub>N</sub>(t) relates the number of Infectives at a certain level N at time t. The level is defined by the case study in question. The number of likely cases S<sub>N</sub>(t) is given by the equation L<sub>N</sub>-I<sub>N</sub>(t) for t≥0. An additional equation is found to define the states present. The states (i<sub>1</sub>,…, i<sub>k</sub>) refer to the number of contaminated individuals i<sub>N</sub> at the levels 1 ≤ N ≤ k. The final state F indicates the end of the transition of states. 
<br><br>Removal occurs at level N:  (i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>k</sub> )→(i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>N</sub>-1,…,i<sub>k</sub>) at rate α<sub>N</sub>(i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>k</sub>)
<br><br>
Infection occurs at level N:  (i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>k</sub> )→(i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>N</sub>-1,…,ik) at rate β<sub>N</sub>(i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>k</sub>)
<br><br>
Detection of the infection outbreak (i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>k</sub> )→F at rate γ(i<sub>1</sub>,…,i<sub>k</sub>)
<br><br>
Every factor depends on the individual case study in question. The γ rate enables the discovery of where the pathogen is introduced.
The exact reproduction number refers to the number of infections that have been instigated by the individual until the person is removed or the outbreak has been detected successfully. This can be summed up by: R<sub>(i1,…,ik)</sub><sup>(N)</sup> = ∑<sub>(a=1)</sub><sup>k</sup> R<sub>(i1,…,ik)</sub>(N)<sup>(a)</sup>. R is the number of infections caused by the individual at a level N. This value is a global variable.

### Section 2.2 - Imalia
 R<sub>(i1,…,ik)</sub><sup>(N)</sup> In the initial starting state the value R’s states encompass the basic reproduction number to produce the mean value. In this initial state R results in being R<sub>(0,..,0,1,…,0)</sub><sup>(N)</sup>. Infection and removal rates are calculated using the R<sub>(i1,…,ik)</sub><sup>(N)</sup> and R<sub>(i1,…,ik)</sub><sup>(N)</sup>(a) values. Every infected person at level N is removed at rate αN and every individual can be infected externally or by another individual with rate βN. Probabilities can be computed using the equation v<sub>(i1,…,ik)</sub><sup>(N)</sup>(q) = P(R<sub>(i1,…,ik)</sub><sup>(N)</sup>=q), q≥0.
The Markov chain consists of a system that is able to transition from state to state, whilst obeying rules relating to probability. The subsequent states are determined on the current state and time passed.

## Section 3 - Ben
### Section 3.1 - Ben
### Section 3.2 - Akinfolarin
### Section 3.3 - Akinfolarin
### Section 3.4 - Kian
### Section 3.5 - Kian
## Section 4 - Eoin
## Data accessibility and Authors' contributions - Eoin
